docs/source/api.rst, before:

API
===


data
----

.. currentmodule:: gamla.data

.. autosummary::
   get_encode_config
   freeze_deep
   dict_to_csv
   csv_to_json
   dict_to_tuple_of_tuples
   tuple_of_tuples_to_csv
   match

functional
----------

.. currentmodule:: gamla.functional

.. autosummary::
   translate_exception
   make_call_key
   top
   bottom
   groupby_many_reduce
   unique_by
   head
   second


functional_async
----------------

.. currentmodule:: gamla.functional_async

.. autosummary::
   run_sync


functional_generic
------------------

.. currentmodule:: gamla.functional_generic

.. autosummary::
   lazyjuxt
   apply_spec
   bifurcate
   countby_many
   

graph
-----

.. currentmodule:: gamla.graph

.. autosummary::
   graph_traverse_many
   general_graph_traverse_many
   traverse_graph_by_radius
   get_connectivity_components
   groupby_many_reduce


Definitions
-----------

.. automodule:: gamla
   :members:

.. automodule:: gamla.functional
   :members:

.. automodule:: gamla.functional_async
   :members:

.. automodule:: gamla.functional_generic
   :members:

.. automodule:: gamla.graph
   :members:

.. automodule:: gamla.transducer
   :members:

Commit message:

add docstrings for all gamla.graph functions and add them to api.rst

docs/source/api.rst, after:

API
===


data
----

.. currentmodule:: gamla.data

.. autosummary::
   get_encode_config
   freeze_deep
   dict_to_csv
   csv_to_json
   dict_to_tuple_of_tuples
   tuple_of_tuples_to_csv
   match

functional
----------

.. currentmodule:: gamla.functional

.. autosummary::
   translate_exception
   make_call_key
   top
   bottom
   groupby_many_reduce
   unique_by
   head
   second


functional_async
----------------

.. currentmodule:: gamla.functional_async

.. autosummary::
   run_sync


functional_generic
------------------

.. currentmodule:: gamla.functional_generic

.. autosummary::
   lazyjuxt
   apply_spec
   bifurcate
   countby_many
   

graph
-----

.. currentmodule:: gamla.graph

.. autosummary::
   graph_traverse
   graph_traverse_many
   general_graph_traverse_many
   traverse_graph_by_radius
   edges_to_graph
   graph_to_edges
   reverse_graph
   cliques_to_graph
   get_connectivity_components
   groupby_many
   has_cycle


Definitions
-----------

.. automodule:: gamla
   :members:

.. automodule:: gamla.functional
   :members:

.. automodule:: gamla.functional_async
   :members:

.. automodule:: gamla.functional_generic
   :members:

.. automodule:: gamla.graph
   :members:

.. automodule:: gamla.transducer
   :members:
